So we have reached 06 custom hooks.
If you need to hop there,
that's where we are.
But otherwise,
this is looking pretty cool, right?
You can change this and it just updates.
I don't know, for me that was just
like a magic moment like, okay,
react can do some cool stuff.
I just kind of described the data
dependencies and things just happen.
Cool, yeah, so
we actually already did this.
[LAUGH] That's funny, so
in the search params.
So we just did this form on Submit, right?
So on Submit we say prevent default,
Which prevents the form from
actually literally submitting.
And then we just call requestPets.
So you can see here we have onChange and
onSubmit, there's onmouseover
there's onmouse up, on key up,
on key down, on pointer events.
I left a link to the doc so you can go see
all the event reaction things you can do.
One of the things I was gonna say,
not that it's super matters, but
this e here, which we're definitely
treating just like a normal DOM event,
technically is a React synthetic event.
Generally doesn't matter, it has all the
exact same APIs as a normal DOM event, but
sometimes it actually does matter.
That's not literally a dom event,
it's a fake dom event.
Usually TypeScript because
TypeScript will get picky
about what kind of event it is.
So, file that somewhere under your brain
of maybe useful in TypeScript stuff.
That's a pretty big pile in my brain.
>> Is that what they call the virtual dom?
>> Yeah, it's part of it.
I mean, as Bears addressing,
react is a big virtual Dom but
notice I haven't said virtual Dom.
I mean,
we're hours into this course, right?
And I've not said virtual Dom,
why have I not said it?
Cuz it is absolutely the least important
part about how react does anything, right?
It's an implementation detail that
you never have to know or care about.
But the general way that react works
is it has the real DOM, which is slow.
And you have a fake DOM,
which is fast, the virtual DOM.
What react does is it makes a big fake DOM
and then it figures out everything that's
the minimal change set that it
needs to do to update the DOM.
And then it reaches over and
does all the slow stuff, but
it minimizes how much of that
interaction has to happen.
That is the virtual DOM.
It's how react works underneath the hood,
generally you never have to care.
But it does a bunch of stuff
to keep track of that.
So, you can just never worry
about the virtual DOM.
It was a big buzzword when react came out,
everyone was talking about the virtual DOM
and now everything has some variety of it.